---
layout: post
title: "My New Site"
image: 
previousSite:
description: "a well overdue blog post about my new site"
published: false
categories: 
- blog
- articles
tags:
---


So I though I used this as chance to write about using Jeckyll as a static site generator to make my website. 

My previous attempt looked like this {{page.previousSite}}

and was using blogger for the blog using custum xml template to make it look consistent with the rest of the website.

This time I decided to use Jeckyll.

## Why Jeckyll?

mostly because of markdown, because I use markdown for my "day to day writing", as well as for when I have to make a presentation <!-- link to remark.js --> it means that I can turn "anything I write" into a blog post very quickly. 
Also if I wanted to add a "download as pdf" option to certain blogpost could easily generate one with pandoc.

### Jeckyll Template
Decided to use the jeckyll template hyde  .   <!-- link + image -->
and see if I could tweak it to change the colour scheme for different sections of the blog.
as well as change the way it looked for smaller screensized.

<!-- different  screenshot before/after-->

### Fenced code blocks
To make this even more straightforward I changed the default liquid code block, to default markdown fenced code block <!-- link to blog post abotu this -->

### Tags and categories
to organise my post, I have a portfolio component, dvided in video, tech, and photo. a TTQF for short tips and "how to", and a block section for longer thoughts that don't fit in the other categories.

<!-- Using categories in markdown -->

### published: false
yalm front matter <!-- what is it?  http://jekyllrb.com/docs/frontmatter/ --> allows you to set `published: false` to a post, to exclude it form the site, and effectivly consider it as a draft untill ready.
reducing the need for a separate system to keep track of drafts. 

Jeckyll would also have support for a separate `_draft` folder, but I find having it in the right folder category to begin with and only changing `published:` from `false` to `true` much more straightforward.

### Markdown syntax
<!-- See Readme page -->

#### Responsive images


#### Lightbox for images


#### Responsive video